[//]: # (This README.md is autogenerated from README_template.md with the script
         render_readme.py)

# Gird

Gird is a lightweight & general-purpose [Make][make]-like build tool & task
runner for Python.

[make]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Make_(software)

Gird can be used to manage any project where some tasks need to be executed
automatically when some dependencies are updated. The goal of Gird is to combine
the following features.

- A simple, expressive, and intuitive rule definition and execution scheme very
  close to that of Make.
- Configuration in Python, allowing straightforward and familiar usage, without
  the need for a dedicated rule definition syntax.
- Ability to take advantage of Python's flexibility and possibility to easily
  integrate with Python libraries and tools.
- Emphasis on API simplicity & ease of use.

## Installation

Install Gird from PyPI with `pip install gird`, or from sources with
`pip install .`.

### Requirements

Gird requires Python version 3.8 or newer, and is supported on Linux & macOS.

Gird also requires [`make`][make] to be available on the command line. It should
be available on all Linux distributions via the default package manager, and on
macOS via Xcode. Most implementations of Make will do, as long as they support
the `.PHONY` special target.

## Usage

Define "rules" in *girdfile.py*. Depending on the composition of a rule
definition, a rule can, for example,

- define a recipe to run a task, e.g., to update a target file,
- define prerequisites for the target, such as dependency files or other rules,
  and
- use Python functions for more complex dependency & recipe functionality.

A rule is invoked by `gird <target_name>`. To list all rules, run
`gird list`.

### Example girdfile.py

This is the girdfile.py of the project itself.

{{ example_girdfile }}

Respective output from `gird --list`:

{{ example_gird_list }}

### Example rules

{{ example_rules }}

## Implementation of Gird

Internally, Gird generates Makefiles & uses Make to run tasks, but interacting
with Make in any way isn't obligatory when using Gird. In the future, Make as a
dependency of Gird might be replaced altogether.
